IMDb More All Titles TV Episodes Names Companies Keywords Characters Videos Quotes Bios Plots Movies, TV & Showtimes MOVIES In Theaters Showtimes & Tickets Latest Trailers Coming Soon Release Calendar CHARTS & TRENDS Popular Movies & TV Box Office Oscar Winners Top 250 Most Popular by Genre TV & VIDEO TV Home On Tonight Watch Now on Amazon DVD & Blu-Ray TV Blog SPECIAL FEATURES SXSW Film Festival Road to the Oscars 2014 X-Ray for Movies & TV Celebs, Events & Photos CELEBS Born Today Celebrity News Most Popular Celebs PHOTOS Latest Stills Latest Posters Movie & TV Premieres On the Red Carpet Special Galleries EVENTS SXSW Film Festival Road to the Oscars Road to the Emmys Comic-Con Cannes Tribeca Sundance More Popular Events News & Community LATEST HEADLINES Andy Serkis to Direct 'Jungle Book' for Warner Bros. (Exclusive) 18 hours ago Christian Bale Is David Fincher's Choice to Play Steve Jobs in Sony Movie (Exclusive) 20 March 2014 Patton Oswalt joins 'Agents Of S.H.I.E.L.D.' as longtime Nick Fury friend Agent Koenig 21 hours ago NEWS Top News Movie News TV News Celebrity News Indie News COMMUNITY Message Boards Contributor Zone Quiz Game Polls Watchlist YOUR WATCHLIST GET INFORMED Industry information at your fingertips GET CONNECTED Over 200,000 Hollywood insiders GET DISCOVERED Enhance your IMDb Page Go to IMDbPro » | IMDb Apps | Help Login Register Login Contact the Production Co. on IMDbPro » MOVIEmeter Top 500 Down 45 this week View rank on IMDbPro » Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone (2001) U 152 min  -  Adventure | Family | Fantasy  -  12 April 2002 (India) 7.4 Your rating:     1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 -/10 X   Ratings: 7.4/10 from 323,841 users   Metascore: 64/100 Reviews: 1,516 user | 249 critic | 35 from Metacritic.com Rescued from the outrageous neglect of his aunt and uncle, a young boy with a great destiny proves his worth while attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Director: Chris Columbus Writers: J.K. Rowling (novel), Steve Kloves (screenplay) Stars: Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Richard Harris | See full cast and crew » 0Check in X Beta I'm Watching This! Keep track of everything you watch; tell your friends. If your account is linked with Facebook and you have turned on sharing, this will show up in your activity feed. If not, you can turn on sharing here . Error Please try again! Added to Your Check-Ins. View Check in 0Share... X Share Facebook Twitter E-mail Check in Quick Links Full Cast and Crew Trivia Quotes Awards Message Board Plot Summary Parents Guide User Reviews Release Dates Company Credits Details Full Cast and Crew Release Dates Official Sites Box Office/Business Company Credits Filming Locations Technical Specs Literature Storyline Taglines Plot Summary Synopsis Plot Keywords Parents Guide Did You Know? Trivia Goofs Crazy Credits Quotes Alternate Versions Connections Soundtracks Photo & Video Photo Gallery Trailers and Videos Opinion Awards FAQ User Reviews User Ratings External Reviews Metacritic Reviews Message Board TV TV Schedule Related Items NewsDesk Showtimes External Sites Professional Services Get more at IMDbPro Add posters & stills to this title Explore More Show Less Related News Josh Gad & Kevin James Joining Adam Sandler for 'Pixels' Adventure 26 February 2014 | firstshowing.net James Bond & Best of Warner Bros. Blu-ray Collections on Sale 19 February 2014 | Rope of Silicon Sunday Ratings: Kennedy Center Honors, NFL Football, 60 Minutes 30 December 2013 | TVSeriesFinale.com See all 665 related articles » Create a list » User Lists Related lists from IMDb users Movies I've watched thus far a list of 34 titles created 29 Aug 2011   Best Fantasy Films a list of 46 titles created 24 Nov 2011   Sve što sam pogledala a list of 25 titles created 16 Sep 2012   Movies a list of 30 titles created 28 Sep 2012   occult a list of 25 titles created 09 Nov 2012   See all related lists » Connect with IMDb Share this Rating Title: Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone (2001) 7.4/10 Want to share IMDb's rating on your own site? Use the HTML below. You must be a registered user to use the IMDb rating plugin. Login Show HTML View more styles Take The Quiz! Test your knowledge of Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone. User Polls Greatest Movie Battle Scene? Fantasy Flying Race Language of the Movies I think I just saw... me! Myers-Briggs Personalities of Fictional Characters Movie 'little girl' you should be afraid of... See more polls » Nominated for 3 Oscars. Another 14 wins & 50 nominations. See more awards » Photos 172 photos | 665 news articles » Learn more People who liked this also liked...  ◄ Prev 6 Next 6 ► 0 Next » Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 (2011) Adventure | Fantasy | Mystery     1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 8.1/10 X   Harry, Ron and Hermione search for Voldemort's remaining Horcruxes in their effort to destroy the Dark Lord. Director: David Yates Stars: Daniel Radcliffe, Emma Watson, Rupert Grint 0 Next » Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (2002) Certificate: U Adventure | Family | Fantasy     1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 7.3/10 X   Harry ignores warnings not to return to Hogwarts, only to find the school plagued by a series of mysterious attacks and a strange voice haunting him. Director: Chris Columbus Stars: Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Emma Watson 0 Next » Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (2005) Certificate: UA Adventure | Family | Fantasy     1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 7.6/10 X   Harry finds himself mysteriously selected as an under-aged competitor in a dangerous tournament between three schools of magic. Director: Mike Newell Stars: Daniel Radcliffe, Emma Watson, Rupert Grint 0 Next » Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (2004) Certificate: U Adventure | Family | Fantasy     1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 7.8/10 X   It's Harry's third year at Hogwarts; not only does he have a new "Defense Against the Dark Arts" teacher, but there is also trouble brewing. Convicted murderer Sirius Black has escaped the Wizards' Prison and is coming after Harry. Director: Alfonso Cuarón Stars: Daniel Radcliffe, Emma Watson, Rupert Grint 0 Next » Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (2007) Adventure | Family | Fantasy     1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 7.4/10 X   With their warning about Lord Voldemort's return scoffed at, Harry and Dumbledore are targeted by the Wizard authorities as an authoritarian bureaucrat slowly seizes power at Hogwarts. Director: David Yates Stars: Daniel Radcliffe, Emma Watson, Rupert Grint 0 Next » Return to Oz (1985) Adventure | Family | Fantasy     1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 6.7/10 X   Dorothy, saved from a psychiatric experiment by a mysterious girl, is somehow called back to Oz when a vain witch and the Nome King destroy everything that makes the magical land beautiful. Director: Walter Murch Stars: Fairuza Balk, Nicol Williamson, Jean Marsh 0 Next » Ghost Busters (1984) Comedy | Fantasy | Sci-Fi     1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 7.8/10 X   Three unemployed parapsychology professors set up shop as a unique ghost removal service. Director: Ivan Reitman Stars: Bill Murray, Dan Aykroyd, Sigourney Weaver 0 Next » The Spiderwick Chronicles (2008) Adventure | Family | Fantasy     1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 6.6/10 X   Upon moving into the run-down Spiderwick Estate with their mother, twin brothers Jared and Simon Grace, along with their sister Mallory, find themselves pulled into an alternate world full of faeries and other creatures. Director: Mark Waters Stars: Freddie Highmore, Sarah Bolger, David Strathairn 0 Next » Alice in Wonderland I (2010) Adventure | Family | Fantasy     1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 6.5/10 X   Nineteen-year-old Alice returns to the magical world from her childhood adventure, where she reunites with her old friends and learns of her true destiny: to end the Red Queen's reign of terror. Director: Tim Burton Stars: Mia Wasikowska, Johnny Depp, Helena Bonham Carter 0 Next » The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe (2005) Certificate: U Adventure | Family | Fantasy     1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 6.9/10 X   Four kids travel through a wardrobe to the land of Narnia and learn of their destiny to free it with the guidance of a mystical lion. Director: Andrew Adamson Stars: Tilda Swinton, Georgie Henley, William Moseley 0 Next » The Water Horse (2007) Adventure | Family | Fantasy     1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 6.5/10 X   A lonely boy discovers a mysterious egg that hatches a sea creature of Scottish legend. Director: Jay Russell Stars: Emily Watson, David Morrissey, Alex Etel 0 Next » The Chronicles of Narnia: The Voyage of the Dawn Treader (2010) Adventure | Family | Fantasy     1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 6.4/10 X   Lucy and Edmund Pevensie return to Narnia with their cousin Eustace where they meet up with Prince Caspian for a trip across the sea aboard the royal ship The Dawn Treader. Along the way they encounter dragons, dwarves, merfolk, and a band of lost warriors before reaching the edge of the world. Director: Michael Apted Stars: Ben Barnes, Skandar Keynes, Georgie Henley Edit Cast Cast overview, first billed only: Richard Harris ... Professor Albus Dumbledore Maggie Smith ... Professor Minerva McGonagall Robbie Coltrane ... Rubeus Hagrid Saunders Triplets ... Baby Harry Potter Daniel Radcliffe ... Harry Potter Fiona Shaw ... Aunt Petunia Dursley Harry Melling ... Dudley Dursley Richard Griffiths ... Uncle Vernon Dursley Derek Deadman ... Tom - Bartender in Leaky Cauldron Ian Hart ... Professor Quirinus Quirrell Ben Borowiecki ... Diagon Alley Boy Warwick Davis ... Goblin Bank Teller / Professor Flitwick Verne Troyer ... Griphook the Goblin (as Vern Troyer) John Hurt ... Mr. Ollivander Richard Bremmer ... He Who Must Not Be Named See full cast » Edit Storyline Harry Potter and the Philospher's Stone is the first film in the Harry Potter series based on the novels by J.K. Rowling. It is the tale of Harry Potter, an ordinary 11-year-old boy serving as a sort of slave for his aunt and uncle who learns that he is actually a wizard and has been invited to attend the Hogwarts School for Witchcraft and Wizardry. Harry is snatched away from his mundane existence by Hagrid, the grounds keeper for Hogwarts, and quickly thrown into a world completely foreign to both him and the viewer. Famous for an incident that happened at his birth, Harry makes friends easily at his new school. He soon finds, however, that the wizarding world is far more dangerous for him than he would have imagined, and he quickly learns that not all wizards are ones to be trusted. Written by Carly Plot Summary | Plot Synopsis Plot Keywords: wizard | friend | witchcraft | boy | birthday | See more » Taglines: Journey beyond your imagination See more » Genres: Adventure | Family | Fantasy Certificate: U | See all certifications » Parents Guide: View content advisory » Edit Details Official Sites: Warner Bros. [Spain] | Warner Bros. [UK] | See more » Country: UK | USA Language: English Release Date: 12 April 2002 (India) See more » Also Known As: Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone See more » Filming Locations: London, England, UK See more » Box Office Budget: $125,000,000 (estimated) Opening Weekend: $8,350,290 (France) (14 December 2001) Gross: $317,557,891 (USA) (17 May 2002) See more » Company Credits Production Co: Warner Bros., Heyday Films, 1492 Pictures See more » Show detailed company contact information on IMDbPro » Technical Specs Runtime: 152 min | 159 min (extended) Sound Mix: DTS-ES | Dolby Digital EX | SDDS (8 channels) Color: Color (Technicolor) Aspect Ratio: 2.35 : 1 See full technical specs » Edit Did You Know? Trivia The movie is known as "Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone" everywhere except the USA and so every scene in which the Philosopher's Stone was mentioned was filmed twice (once with the actors saying "Philosopher's" and once with the actors saying "Sorcerer's") or redubbed (notably, one of the times Hermoine says it in the library, her face isn't shown). The reason for this was to keep the films consistent with the book series: the US publisher, Scholastic, had changed the title (and corresponding text) to "Sorcerer's Stone". The title change was done with the consent of author 'J.K. Rowling', but she has since said that she regrets having granting permission, and as a fledgling author she wasn't in a strong enough position to fight it at the time. See more » Goofs After Ron uses the levitation spell to knock out the troll with its own club, we neither hear the club hit the floor, nor do we see it afterwards. See more » Quotes [first lines] Professor McGonagall: [as a cat] Mraow! Dumbledore: I should have known that you would be here, Professor McGonagall. [Professor McGonagall transfigures into her human self] See more » Crazy Credits Richard Bremmer, the vocal and facial source for the computer generated Lord Voldemort is credited as "'He Who Must Not Be Named.'" See more » Connections Featured in HBO First Look: Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone (2001) See more » Frequently Asked Questions Q: What lessons are shown in this movie? Q: Why was the title changed from "Philosopher's Stone" to "Sorcerer's Stone?" Q: How is Quidditch played? See more (Spoiler Alert!) » User Reviews   It's a true adaptation, but lacks an edge like the novel. *** (out of four) 18 December 2001 | by Blake French (baffilmcritic@cs.com) (USA) – See all my reviews HARRY POTTER / (2001) *** (out of four) Here's a method of evaluating a movie based on previously published material: ask yourself if the film makes you want to read the material from which it is based? Before the release of "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone," I was one of the few remaining souls who had not read J.K. Rowling's fantasy book series. After screening the first film installment, I did want to read the book. Borrowing the novel from a family member, I briefly skimmed over the chapters. The book's intelligence and similarities with the film really surprised me. With over 100 million copies sold in over 46 different languages, J.K. Rowling's best-selling series of books has become a worldwide phenomenon. Naturally, with soaring expectations abound, the filmmakers felt great pressure to create a faithful adaptation. They have. This film is essentially a visualization of the words in the novel, with very few differences. That said, the film does run into a few conflicts with the book's story. The middle of the movie has nowhere to go. It's like a false second act; almost nothing of major significance occurs in this period of the film. The young characters wander from scene to scene with nothing much to do and nothing much to say. We're left with a grand display of eye-popping special effects. "Harry Potter" certainly dazzles us with a solid beginning and an engaging final act, however. We first meet a young wizard boy named Harry Potter (Daniel Radcliffe). Soon after the film opens, the boy discovers he has magical powers. He's then thrust into an enchanting world of sorcery, magic, and witchcraft. He's sent to a school for young wizard children, where he meets new friends, learns about magic, and participates in fun competitions. But someone at the school doesn't like Harry, as mysterious events begin to occur. Harry soon finds himself in the middle of a diabolical scheme of revenge. Who is the culprit and what do they want with Harry? The film asks some involving questions. Too bad it doesn't give enough depth to the side characters or subplots. We don't really care about the mystery because we don't know enough about the suspects. The movie does conclude with a twist, but it doesn't encourage another examination of the movie. It lacks a foundation altogether. The story spends so much time foreshadowing the villain's identity, it is pointless for the story to abandon its proceeding plot points and develop a new villain at the end. The book gets away with this; the movie does not. After his gentle "Home Alone" and sweet-natured "Stepmom," many questioned the ability of director Chris Columbus to bring a sense of darkness to the story-and for good reason. "Harry Potter" contains charming, likable characters and a rich pallet of lush, inventive images. Unfortunately, the film lacks an edge. It's missing the dark atmosphere Rowling's novel so vividly brought to life. Columbus does construct some memorable sequences, but the individual scenes themselves are much better than the movie as a whole. Despite it's childish story and pre-teen characters, many define "Harry Potter" as a film for all ages. While that's debatable, during my screening, adults were plowing through the isles every five minutes. Going to the bathroom? Getting drink refills? Buying concessions? Who knows? But not a single child budged from their seat. Their eyes were glued to the big screen. Conclusion: It's a sure-fire experience for children, especially if they've read the books. But adults may not encounter the same enticement as kids. Then again, if I had nothing better to do than to count the people leaving the theater, why am I recommending the film? 41 of 62 people found this review helpful.  Was this review helpful to you? Yes No Review this title | See all 1,516 user reviews » Message Boards Recent Posts Small detail but kind of funny DoctorPerson I'm pretty sure that the movie's story didn't take place in the 90s DoctorPerson Too Faithful to the book ReeseJohn HBO series!!! volz-andy1 Do Heroes exist in Real Life? emmaclarke781 Points system danaenicole Discuss Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone (2001) on the IMDb message boards » Getting Started | Contributor Zone » Contribute to This Page Edit page Write review   Home | Search | Site Index | In Theaters | Coming Soon | Top Movies | Top 250 | TV | News | Message Boards | Press Room Register | Advertising | Contact Us | Jobs | IMDbPro | Box Office Mojo | Withoutabox IMDb Mobile: iPhone/iPad | Android | Mobile site | Windows Phone 7 | IMDb Social: Facebook | Twitter Copyright © 1990-2014 IMDb.com, Inc. Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy | Interest-Based Ads An company. Amazon Affiliates Amazon Instant Video Watch Movies & TV Online Prime Instant Video Unlimited Streaming of Movies & TV Amazon Germany Buy Movies on DVD & Blu-ray Amazon Italy Buy Movies on DVD & Blu-ray Amazon France Buy Movies on DVD & Blu-ray Amazon India Buy Movie and TV Show DVDs DPReview Digital Photography Audible Download Audio Books