Home Leaky Info About Us Site Info FAQ Job Openings Contact Us Links / Affiliates Site Awards Potter News Archive Text-Only Leaky Mobile The Quibbler Notifications Newsletter Subscription Links Comments TOU Features PotterCast Leaky Mug Essays Crafts Interviews DVD Commentaries Reviews Event Reports Charity Interactive Forum Chamber of Chat Corner Booth (Text) Chat Reading Groups Book Club Quizzes Leaky MySpace Leaky Facebook Galleries Images Videos Fan Art Book Covers Chapter Art The Books Book 7 What's Left? Book 6 Discussions JK Rowling JKR Contact Info Rowling Interviews Book Awards Release Dates HarryPotterSeven.com HP101 The Films Movie 6 Movie 5 Movie 4 Movie 3 Movie 2 Movie 1 Discussions Trailers / TV Spots Set Reports Shot-by-Shots Movie Reviews For Fun! Icons / Avatars Merchandise Contests Games Widgets Parties Video Games Harry Potter Conferences The Quibbler MyLeaky Login Join the largest Harry Potter Social Network on the Web! | FAQ advertise on this site Amazon.com Widgets PotterCast Interviews Jo Rowling! Click here to Listen! The Books Everything...Half-Blood Prince...and the rest of the HP Films Leaky Apps Guess That Book "It's one of the basic rules of breeding," she said. "You see it all the time with dogs. If there's something wrong with the bitch, there'll be something wrong with the pup --" Sorcerer's Stone Chamber of Secrets Prisoner of Azkaban Goblet of Fire Order of the Phoenix Half-Blood Prince Deathly Hallows Scribbulus Essay Project Issue 28 - Mar. 2014 Scribbulus is THE place for Leaky Cauldron readers to submit their essays and opinion pieces! End of an Era My Friend Harry A Muggle's Journey from Platform 9 3/4 See more over at Scribbulus! Leaky Poll What will J.K. Rowling's Next Book Be About? A political faerie story, like she once said. Tiny little faeries running for office. The Scottish Book. All about Scotland. Albus Severus and the Book They Said Would Never Happen I'm J.K. Rowling, and I'll tell you in comments. Total Votes: 36830 | Comments (12835) Click to see Past Polls Learn to knit your own 'Weasley Sweater'. Learn to brew your own 'Butterbeer'. Find out how at Leaky Crafts! In the News Bloomsbury to give Potter books a Makeover Posted by: Catherine March 21, 2014, 02:29 PM As reported previously, Scholastic gave the paperback editions of the Harry Potter novels a whole new look. Recently, Bloomsbury has decided to follow suit and apply new cover art to the UK paperback editions of the series. Johnny Duddle will be giving the books new front cover, spine, and back coverContinued... Comments More Material on Pottermore and More to Come Posted by: Catherine March 14, 2014, 08:34 PM As promised, showing support for the Scottish rugby team by tweeting #wizards4scotlandrugbyteam, J.K. Rowling has posted more material on the Quidditch World Cup on Pottermore. In this new entry, which can be read here, Rowling tells us of the foundation of the Quidditch World Cup, its rules, and aContinued... Comments (1) Universal Opens a Window on Hogwarts Express Experience Posted by: Melissa March 14, 2014, 12:00 AM Universal has released a few new details about the Hogwarts Express journey that will take place at the Wizarding World of Harry Potter this summer. The ride will connect people from the Hogsmeade to the Diagon Alley side of the park, the latter of which is the much-anticipated expansionContinued... Comments (1) More Leaky News Continued below including... "Noah" portion of Emma Watson's Wonderland Interview Happy Birthday Professor Lupin and Happy Belated Birthday Professor Trelawney J.K. Rowling "If you re-tweet, I'll put loads on Quidditch on Pottermore"   More Leaky News "Noah" portion of Emma Watson's Wonderland Interview Posted by: Catherine March 11, 2014, 07:10 PM Miss Watson posted a tweet earlier today, with an attached photocopy of a segment from her interview with Wonderland magazine. As reported previously, Miss Watson was the guest editor for the newest edition of Wonderland, for which she was interviewed as well as conducted interviews (includingContinued... Comments (1) Happy Birthday Professor Lupin and Happy Belated Birthday Professor Trelawney Posted by: Catherine March 10, 2014, 04:18 PM Today, March 10, please join us in celebrating the birthday of a beloved Defense Against the Dark Arts professor's birthday: Remus Lupin! To many Lupin was more than just a Hogwarts professor. He was a great member of the Order of the Pheonix, mentor, and family friend.Continued... Comments (3) J.K. Rowling "If you re-tweet, I'll put loads on Quidditch on Pottermore" Posted by: Catherine March 07, 2014, 10:51 AM This morning, twitter once again seemed to come a live for wizards and J.K. Rowling. As it is always a treat when our literary Queen takes time to post a tweet, it was a pleasant surprise to see her twitter a buzz with more rugby. Low and behold, Ms. Rowling was even respondingContinued... Comments (3) Video: Dan Radcliffe in "The Simpsons" Posted by: Mel March 06, 2014, 08:42 PM Dan Radcliffe will be voicing a character on an upcoming episode of "The Simpsons" and a video showing his character, Diggs, and of Radcliffe in the recording studio has been made available online. You can watch it here or below. The episode will air this Sunday, March 9th. Thanks to SnitchSeeker for the tip.Continued... Comments (1) John Hurt Donates Doodle to National Doodle Day Posted by: Mel March 04, 2014, 10:35 PM As readers may recall, quite a few Harry Potter actors are participating in this year's National Doodle Day, and now John Hurt (Mr. Ollivander) has also donated a doodle for the charity auction. Hurt donated a doodle of a dog, which you can see here. This doodle and many others will go up forContinued... Comments (1) Emma Watson Talks Ron/Hermione on Red Carpet at the Oscars Posted by: Mel March 04, 2014, 09:30 PM This past Sunday, on the red carpet at the Oscars, Emma Watson spoke about J. K. Rowling's recent comments on the Ron/Hermione pairing, saying that the quote was "taken out of context": Rowling recently made waves when she confessed last month that she regretted pairing up Harry's best friendsContinued... Comments (2) Sarah Phelps Screenwriter of BBC adaption of "The Casual Vacancy" Posted by: Catherine March 04, 2014, 10:47 AM As BBC announced their plans for adapting Dame Agatha Christie novel's in celebration of 125 years of publication, they also mentioned the screenwriter of the mini-series adaption of J.K. Rowling's The Casual Vacancy. Acclaimed screenwriter Sarah Phelps, who will be adapting ChristieContinued... Comments (1) The Leaky Cauldron's Menu at the Wizarding World! Posted by: Catherine March 04, 2014, 10:33 AM Two new photos of what is to come this summer, with Orlando's new Wizarding World: Diagon Alley, have been released. These photos contain snap shots of what food will be on the menu in Diagon Alley's main restaurant: the real-life Leaky Cauldron! Tom Schroder, PR for Universal Orlando Resorts, postedContinued... Comments (5) Emma Watson Presents at the Oscars Posted by: Catherine March 03, 2014, 11:09 AM As reported earlier, Emma Watson presented the Oscar for Best Visual Effects (an award Harry Potter was often nominated for) along side Joseph Gordon-Levitt. Joseph Gordon-Levitt posted a funny selfie along side Emma, which can be seen below. There are many are other photos floating around of the pair as well.Continued... Comments (1) Happy Birthday, Ron Weasley! Posted by: Mel March 01, 2014, 08:41 PM March 1st marks the birthday of Ron Weasley! Please join us at Leaky in wishing Ron Weasley a very happy birthday! Many happy returns, Ron! Comments (3) PotterCast 253: PotterCast Filch! Posted by: Melissa February 27, 2014, 08:59 AM And, PotterCast is back! Just when we thought we were out... Lots of stuff on the docket this time, like Ron/Hermione, Harry/Hermione, Ron/Hermione, Harry, Hermione, Ron/Hermione, and... what else? Oh, right, the park, and the upcoming Potter play. And a tease of a brand new Leaky podcast! You can subscribe to PotterCast Continued... Comments (3) Rupert Grint Talks Acting On Stage and Ron/Hermione Posted by: Mel February 26, 2014, 08:46 PM In a new interview at the What's on Stage Awards, Rupert Grint spoke about acting on stage for the first time, as well as commenting on J. K. Rowling's recent comments on Ron's romantic relationship with Hermione. You can watch the interview here or below.    Comments (2) « Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … 919 920 Next » Displaying articles 1 - 15 of 13798 in total News sub-categories: Art, Audio, Birthdays, Books, Charity, Contests, Education, Events, Exclusives, FAQs, Fans, Featured News, Games, HP References, Holidays, Honors/Awards, Humor, Interviews, Celebs on HP, J.K. Rowling, Legal, Media, Misc, Movies, Music, Opinion, Parody, Products, Release Parties, Religion, Review, Rumor, Sales, Tech, and Widgets The Leaky Cauldron is not associated with J.K. Rowling, Warner Bros., or any of the individuals or companies associated with producing and publishing Harry Potter books and films. "The Leaky Song" by Brad Mehlenbacher of Draco and the Malfoys or archives » J.K. Rowling Interview, Part TLC Interviews About Us Scribbulus - Index of Essays