Harry Potter From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search This article is about the fantasy book series. For the titular character, see Harry Potter (character). For the film series, see Harry Potter (film series). For related topics, see List of Harry Potter related topics. For other uses, see Harry Potter (disambiguation). Harry Potter The Harry Potter logo was first used for the American edition of the novel series (and some other editions worldwide), and then the film series. 1. Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone 2. Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets 3. Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban 4. Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire 5. Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix 6. Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince 7. Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Author J. K. Rowling Country United Kingdom Language English Genre Fantasy, young-adult fiction, mystery, thriller, Bildungsroman, magical realism Publisher Bloomsbury Publishing (UK) Arthur A. Levine Books (US) Published 29 June 1997 – 21 July 2007 (initial publication) Media type Print (hardback & paperback) Audiobook E-book (as of March 2012)[1] No. of books 7 Harry Potter is a series of seven fantasy novels written by the British author J. K. Rowling. The series, named after the titular character, chronicles the adventures of a young wizard, Harry Potter, and his friends Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger, all of whom are students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. The main story arc concerns Harry's quest to overcome the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort, who aims to become immortal, conquer the wizarding world, subjugate non-magical people, and destroy all those who stand in his way, especially Harry Potter. Since the release of the first novel, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, on 30 June 1997, the books have gained immense popularity, critical acclaim, and commercial success worldwide.[2] The series has also had some share of criticism, including concern for the increasingly dark tone. As of July 2013[update], the book series had sold between 400 and 450 million copies, making it the best-selling book series in history, and had been translated into 73 languages.[3][4] The last four books consecutively set records as the fastest-selling books in history, with the final instalment selling approximately 11 million copies in the United States within the first twenty-four hours of its release. A series of many genres, including fantasy, coming of age, and the British school story, (with elements of mystery, thriller, adventure, and romance), it has many cultural meanings and references.[5] According to Rowling, the main theme is death.[6] There are also many other themes in the series, such as prejudice and corruption.[7] The series was originally printed in English by two major publishers, Bloomsbury in the United Kingdom and Scholastic Press in the United States. The books have since been published by many publishers worldwide. The books, with the seventh book split into two parts, have been made into an eight-part film series by Warner Bros. Pictures, the highest-grossing film series of all time. The series also originated much tie-in merchandise, making the Harry Potter brand worth in excess of $15 billion.[8] Thanks to the success of the books and films, Harry Potter has also been used for a theme park, The Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Universal Parks & Resorts' Islands of Adventure. Contents 1 Plot 1.1 Early years 1.2 Voldemort returns 1.3 Supplementary works 2 Structure and genre 3 Themes 4 Origins and publishing history 4.1 Translations 4.2 Completion of the series 5 Achievements 5.1 Cultural impact 5.2 Commercial success 5.3 Awards, honours, and recognition 6 Reception 6.1 Literary criticism 6.2 Social impacts 6.3 Controversies 7 Adaptations 7.1 Films 7.2 Games 7.3 Audiobooks 7.4 Stage production 8 Attractions 8.1 United States 8.2 United Kingdom 9 See also 10 References 11 Further reading 12 External links Plot Further information: Harry Potter universe The novels revolve around Harry Potter, an orphan who discovers at the age of eleven that he is a wizard, living within the ordinary world of non-magical people, known as Muggles.[9] His ability is inborn and such children are invited to attend an exclusive magic school that teaches the necessary skills to succeed in the wizarding world.[10] Harry becomes a student at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and it is here where most of the events in the series take place. As Harry develops through his adolescence, he learns to overcome the problems that face him: magical, social and emotional, including ordinary teenage challenges such as friendships, infatuation and exams, and the greater test of preparing himself for the confrontation in the real world that lies ahead.[11] Each book chronicles one year in Harry's life[12] with the main narrative being set in the years 1991–98.[13] The books also contain many flashbacks, which are frequently experienced by Harry viewing the memories of other characters in a device called a Pensieve. The environment Rowling created is completely separate from reality yet also intimately connected to it. While the fantasy land of Narnia is an alternative universe and the Lord of the Rings' Middle-earth a mythic past, the wizarding world of Harry Potter exists in parallel within the real world and contains magical versions of the ordinary elements of everyday life. Many of its institutions and locations are recognisable, such as London.[14] It comprises a fragmented collection of overlooked hidden streets, ancient pubs, lonely country manors and secluded castles that remain invisible to the Muggle population.[10] Early years When the first novel of the series, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (published in some countries as Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone), opens, it is apparent that some significant event has taken place in the wizarding world—an event so very remarkable, even the Muggles notice signs of it. The full background to this event and to the person of Harry Potter is only revealed gradually through the series. After the introductory chapter, the book leaps forward to a time shortly before Harry Potter's eleventh birthday, and it is at this point that his magical background begins to be revealed. Harry's first contact with the wizarding world is through a half-giant, Rubeus Hagrid, keeper of grounds and keys at Hogwarts. Hagrid reveals some of Harry's history.[15] Harry learns that as a baby he witnessed his parents' murder by the power-obsessed Dark wizard Lord Voldemort, who then attempted to kill him also.[15] For reasons not immediately revealed, the spell with which Voldemort tried to kill Harry rebounded. Harry survived with only a lightning-shaped scar on his forehead as a memento of the attack, and Voldemort disappeared afterwards. As its inadvertent saviour from Voldemort's reign of terror, Harry has become a living legend in the wizarding world. However, at the orders of the venerable and well-known wizard Albus Dumbledore, the orphaned Harry had been placed in the home of his unpleasant Muggle relatives, the Dursleys, who had him safe but hid his true heritage from him in hopes that he would grow up "normal."[15] With Hagrid's help, Harry prepares for and undertakes his first year of study at Hogwarts. As Harry begins to explore the magical world, the reader is introduced to many of the primary locations used throughout the series. Harry meets most of the main characters and gains his two closest friends: Ron Weasley, a fun-loving member of an ancient, large, happy, but poor wizarding family, and Hermione Granger, a gifted and very hardworking witch of non-magical parentage.[15][16] Harry also encounters the school's potions master, Severus Snape, who displays a deep and abiding dislike for him, and the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, Quirinus Quirrell, who later turns out to be controlled by Lord Voldemort. The plot concludes with Harry's second confrontation with Lord Voldemort, who in his quest for immortality, yearns to gain the power of the Philosopher's Stone, a substance that bestow everlasting life.[15] The series continues with Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets describing Harry's second year at Hogwarts. He and his friends investigate a 50-year-old mystery that appears tied to recent sinister events at the school. Ron's younger sister, Ginny Weasley, enrolls in her first year at Hogwarts, and finds an old notebook which turns out to be Voldemort's diary from his school days. Ginny becomes possessed by Voldemort through the diary and unconsciously opens the "Chamber of Secrets," unleashing an ancient monster which begins attacking students at Hogwarts. The novel delves into the history of Hogwarts and a legend revolving around the Chamber that soon frightened everyone in the school. The book also introduces a new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, Gilderoy Lockhart, a highly cheerful, self-conceited know-it-all who later turns out to be a fraud. For the first time, Harry realises that racial prejudice exists in the wizarding world even before, and he learns that Voldemort's reign of terror was often directed at wizards who were descended from Muggles. Harry also learns that his ability to speak Parseltongue, the language of snakes, is rare and often associated with the Dark Arts. The novel ends after Harry saves Ginny's life by destroying a basilisk and the enchanted diary which has been the source of the problems. The third novel, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, follows Harry in his third year of magical education. It is the only book in the series which does not feature Lord Voldemort. Instead, Harry must deal with the knowledge that he has been targeted by Sirius Black, an escaped mass murderer believed to have assisted in the deaths of Harry's parents. As Harry struggles with his reaction to the dementors—dark creatures with the power to devour a human soul—which are ostensibly protecting the school, he reaches out to Remus Lupin, a Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher who is eventually revealed to be a werewolf. Lupin teaches Harry defensive measures which are well above the level of magic generally executed by people his age. Harry learns that both Lupin and Black were best friends of his father and that Black was framed by their fourth friend, Peter Pettigrew.[17] In this book, a recurring theme throughout the series is emphasised—in every book there is a new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, none of whom lasts more than one school year. Voldemort returns "The Elephant House" – The café in Edinburgh in which Rowling wrote the first part of Harry Potter. During Harry's fourth year of school (detailed in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire) Harry is unwillingly entered as a participant in the Triwizard Tournament, a dangerous contest where Harry must compete against a witch and a wizard "champion" from visiting schools as well as another Hogwarts student, causing Harry's friends to distant themselves from him. [18] Harry is guided through the tournament by their new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody, who turns out to be an impostor—one of Voldemort's supporters named Barty Crouch, Jr. in disguise. The point at which the mystery is unravelled marks the series' shift from foreboding and uncertainty into open conflict. Voldemort's plan to have Crouch use the tournament to bring Harry to Voldemort succeeds. Although Harry manages to escape, Cedric Diggory, the other Hogwarts champion in the tournament, is killed by Peter Pettigrew and Voldemort re-enters the wizarding world with a physical body. In the fifth book, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Harry must confront the newly resurfaced Voldemort. In response to Voldemort's reappearance, Dumbledore re-activates the Order of the Phoenix, a secret society which works from Sirius Black's dark family home to defeat Voldemort's minions and protect Voldemort's targets, especially Harry. Despite Harry's description of Voldemort's recent activities, the Ministry of Magic and many others in the magical world refuse to believe that Voldemort has returned.[19] In an attempt to counter and eventually discredit Dumbledore, who along with Harry is the most prominent voice in the wizarding world attempting to warn of Voldemort's return, the Ministry appoints Dolores Umbridge as the High Inquisitor of Hogwarts and the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher. She transforms the school into a dictatorial regime and refuses to allow the students to learn ways to defend themselves against dark magic.[19] With Ron and Hermione's suggestion, Harry reluctantly forms "Dumbledore's Army," a secret study group aimed to teach his classmates the higher-level skills of Defence Against the Dark Arts that he has learned from his previous encounters with Dark wizards. An important prophecy concerning Harry and Lord Voldemort is revealed,[20] and Harry discovers that he and Voldemort have a painful connection, allowing Harry to view some of Voldemort's actions telepathically. In the novel's climax, Harry and his friends face off against Voldemort's Death Eaters at the Ministry of Magic. Although the timely arrival of members of the Order of the Phoenix saves the children's lives, Sirius Black is killed in the conflict by Lucius Malfoy.[19] In the sixth book, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Voldemort begins waging open warfare. Harry and his friends are relatively protected from that danger at Hogwarts. They are subject to all the difficulties of adolescence—Harry eventually begins dating Ginny, Ron establishes a strong infatuation with fellow Hogwarts student Lavender Brown, and Hermione starts recognizing her loving feelings for Ron. Near the beginning of the novel, Harry is given an old potions textbook filled with many annotations and recommendations signed by a mysterious writer, named "the Half-Blood Prince." This book is a source of scholastic success and great recognition from their new potions master, Horace Slughorn, but because of the potency of the spells that are written in it, becomes a source of concern. Harry takes private lessons with Dumbledore, who shows him various memories concerning the early life of Voldemort in a device called the Pensieve. These reveal that Voldemort, to preserve his life, has split his soul into pieces, creating a series of horcruxes, evil enchanted items hidden in various locations, one of which was the diary destroyed in the second book.[21] Harry's snobbish adversary, Draco Malfoy, attempts to attack Dumbledore, and the book culminates in the killing of Dumbledore by Professor Snape, the titular Half-Blood Prince. Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, the last book in the series, begins directly after the events of the sixth book. Lord Voldemort has completed his ascension to power and gains control of the Ministry of Magic. Harry, Ron and Hermione drop out of school so that they can find and destroy Voldemort's remaining horcruxes. To ensure their own safety as well as that of their family and friends, they are forced to isolate themselves. As they search for the horcruxes, the trio learns details about Dumbledore's past, as well as Snape's true motives—he had worked on Dumbledore's behalf since the murder of Harry's mother. The book culminates in the Battle of Hogwarts. Harry, Ron and Hermione, in conjunction with members of the Order of the Phoenix and many of the teachers and students, defend Hogwarts from Voldemort, his Death Eaters, and various dangerous magical creatures. Several major characters are killed in the first wave of the battle, including Remus Lupin and Fred Weasley. After learning that he himself is a horcrux, Harry surrenders himself to Voldemort in the Forbidden Forest, who casts a killing curse at him. However, the defenders of Hogwarts do not surrender after learning this, but continue to fight on. Having managed to return from the dead, Harry finally faces Voldemort, whose horcruxes have all been destroyed. In the subsequent battle, Voldemort's killing curse rebounds off of Harry's spell and kills Voldemort, disintegrating his physical presence. An epilogue describes the lives of the surviving characters and the effects of Voldemort's death on the wizarding world. Supplementary works See also: J. K. Rowling: Philanthropy Rowling has expanded the Harry Potter universe with several short books produced for various charities.[22][23] In 2001, she released Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (a purported Hogwarts textbook) and Quidditch Through the Ages (a book Harry reads for fun). Proceeds from the sale of these two books benefitted the charity Comic Relief.[24] In 2007, Rowling composed seven handwritten copies of The Tales of Beedle the Bard, a collection of fairy tales that is featured in the final novel, one of which was auctioned to raise money for the Children's High Level Group, a fund for mentally disabled children in poor countries. The book was published internationally on 4 December 2008.[25][26] Rowling also wrote an 800-word prequel in 2008 as part of a fundraiser organised by the bookseller Waterstones.[27] All three of these books contain extra information about the Wizarding World not included in the original novels. In 2011, Rowling launched a new website announcing an upcoming project called Pottermore.[28] Pottermore opened to the general public on 14 April 2012.[29] Pottermore allows users to be sorted, be chosen by their wand and play various minigames. The main purpose of the website however was to allow the user to journey though the story with access to content not revealed by JK Rowling previously, with over 18,000 words of additional content.[30] Structure and genre See also: Harry Potter influences and analogues The Harry Potter novels fall within the genre of fantasy literature; however, in many respects they are also bildungsromans, or coming of age novels,[31] and contain elements of mystery, adventure, thriller, and romance. They can be considered part of the British children's boarding school genre, which includes Rudyard Kipling's Stalky & Co., Enid Blyton's Malory Towers, St. Clare's and the Naughtiest Girl series, and Frank Richards's Billy Bunter novels: the Harry Potter books are predominantly set in Hogwarts, a fictional British boarding school for wizards, where the curriculum includes the use of magic.[32] In this sense they are "in a direct line of descent from Thomas Hughes's Tom Brown's School Days and other Victorian and Edwardian novels of British public school life".[33][34] They are also, in the words of Stephen King, "shrewd mystery tales",[35] and each book is constructed in the manner of a Sherlock Holmes-style mystery adventure. The stories are told from a third person limited point of view with very few exceptions (such as the opening chapters of Philosopher's Stone, Goblet of Fire and Deathly Hallows and the first two chapters of Half-Blood Prince). In the middle of each book, Harry struggles with the problems he encounters, and dealing with them often involves the need to violate some school rules. If students are caught breaking rules, they are often disciplined by Hogwarts professors. However, the stories reach their climax in the summer term, near or just after final exams, when events escalate far beyond in-school squabbles and struggles, and Harry must confront either Voldemort or one of his followers, the Death Eaters, with the stakes a matter of life and death–a point underlined, as the series progresses, by one or more characters being killed in each of the final four books.[36][37] In the aftermath, he learns important lessons through exposition and discussions with head teacher and mentor Albus Dumbledore. In the final novel, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Harry and his friends spend most of their time away from Hogwarts, and only return there to face Voldemort at the dénouement.[36] Themes According to Rowling, a major theme in the series is death: "My books are largely about death. They open with the death of Harry's parents. There is Voldemort's obsession with conquering death and his quest for immortality at any price, the goal of anyone with magic. I so understand why Voldemort wants to conquer death. We're all frightened of it."[6] Academics and journalists have developed many other interpretations of themes in the books, some more complex than others, and some including political subtexts. Themes such as normality, oppression, survival, and overcoming imposing odds have all been considered as prevalent throughout the series.[38] Similarly, the theme of making one's way through adolescence and "going over one's most harrowing ordeals—and thus coming to terms with them" has also been considered.[39] Rowling has stated that the books comprise "a prolonged argument for tolerance, a prolonged plea for an end to bigotry" and that also pass on a message to "question authority and... not assume that the establishment or the press tells you all of the truth".[40] While the books could be said to comprise many other themes, such as power/abuse of power, love, prejudice, and free choice, they are, as Rowling states, "deeply entrenched in the whole plot"; the writer prefers to let themes "grow organically", rather than sitting down and consciously attempting to impart such ideas to her readers.[7] Along the same lines is the ever-present theme of adolescence, in whose depiction Rowling has been purposeful in acknowledging her characters' sexualities and not leaving Harry, as she put it, "stuck in a state of permanent pre-pubescence".[41] Rowling said that, to her, the moral significance of the tales seems "blindingly obvious". The key for her was the choice between what is right and what is easy, "because that ... is how tyranny is started, with people being apathetic and taking the easy route and suddenly finding themselves in deep trouble."[42] Origins and publishing history The novelist, J. K. Rowling. In 1990, Rowling was on a crowded train from Manchester to London when the idea for Harry suddenly "fell into her head". Rowling gives an account of the experience on her website saying:[43] "I had been writing almost continuously since the age of six but I had never been so excited about an idea before. I simply sat and thought, for four (delayed train) hours, and all the details bubbled up in my brain, and this scrawny, black-haired, bespectacled boy who did not know he was a wizard became more and more real to me." Rowling completed Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone in 1995 and the manuscript was sent off to several prospective agents.[44] The second agent she tried, Christopher Little, offered to represent her and sent the manuscript to Bloomsbury. After eight other publishers had rejected Philosopher's Stone, Bloomsbury offered Rowling a £2,500 advance for its publication.[45][46] Despite Rowling's statement that she did not have any particular age group in mind when beginning to write the Harry Potter books, the publishers initially targeted children aged nine to eleven.[47] On the eve of publishing, Rowling was asked by her publishers to adopt a more gender-neutral pen name in order to appeal to the male members of this age group, fearing that they would not be interested in reading a novel they knew to be written by a woman. She elected to use J. K. Rowling (Joanne Kathleen Rowling), using her grandmother's name as her second name because she has no middle name.[46][48] The logo used in British editions Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone was published by Bloomsbury, the publisher of all Harry Potter books in the United Kingdom, on 30 June 1997.[49] It was released in the United States on 1 September 1998 by Scholastic—the American publisher of the books—as Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone,[50] after Rowling had received US$105,000 for the American rights—an unprecedented amount for a children's book by a then-unknown author.[51] Fearing that American readers would not associate the word "philosopher" with a magical theme (although the Philosopher's Stone is alchemy-related), Scholastic insisted that the book be given the title Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone for the American market. The second book, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets was originally published in the UK on 2 July 1998 and in the US on 2 June 1999. Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban was then published a year later in the UK on 8 July 1999 and in the US on 8 September 1999.[52] Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire was published on 8 July 2000 at the same time by Bloomsbury and Scholastic.[53] Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is the longest book in the series at 766 pages in the UK version and 870 pages in the US version.[54] It was published worldwide in English on 21 June 2003.[55] Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince was published on 16 July 2005, and it sold 9 million copies in the first 24 hours of its worldwide release.[56][57] The seventh and final novel, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, was published 21 July 2007.[58] The book sold 11 million copies in the first 24 hours of release, breaking down to 2.7 million copies in the UK and 8.3 million in the US.[57] Translations Main article: Harry Potter in translation The series has been translated into 67 languages,[3][59] placing Rowling among the most translated authors in history.[60] The books have seen translations to diverse languages such as Azerbaijani, Ukrainian, Arabic, Urdu, Hindi, Bengali, Welsh, Afrikaans, Albanian, Latvian and Vietnamese. The first volume has been translated into Latin and even Ancient Greek,[61] making it the longest published work in Ancient Greek since the novels of Heliodorus of Emesa in the 3rd century AD.[62] Some of the translators hired to work on the books were well-known authors before their work on Harry Potter, such as Viktor Golyshev, who oversaw the Russian translation of the series' fifth book. The Turkish translation of books two to seven was undertaken by Sevin Okyay, a popular literary critic and cultural commentator.[63] For reasons of secrecy, translation can only start when the books are released in English; thus there is a lag of several months before the translations are available. This has led to more and more copies of the English editions being sold to impatient fans in non-English speaking countries. Such was the clamour to read the fifth book that its English language edition became the first English-language book ever to top the best-seller list in France.[64] The United States editions have been adapted into American English, to make them more understandable to a young American audience.[65] Completion of the series In December 2005, Rowling stated on her web site, "2006 will be the year when I write the final book in the Harry Potter series."[66] Updates then followed in her online diary chronicling the progress of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, with the release date of 21 July 2007. The book itself was finished on 11 January 2007 in the Balmoral Hotel, Edinburgh, where she scrawled a message on the back of a bust of Hermes. It read: "J. K. Rowling finished writing Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows in this room (552) on 11 January 2007."[67] Rowling herself has stated that the last chapter of the final book (in fact, the epilogue) was completed "in something like 1990".[68][69] In June 2006, Rowling, on an appearance on the British talk show Richard & Judy, announced that the chapter had been modified as one character "got a reprieve" and two others who previously survived the story had in fact been killed. On 28 March 2007, the cover art for the Bloomsbury Adult and Child versions and the Scholastic version were released.[70][71] In September 2012, Rowling mentioned in an interview that she might go back to make a "director's cut" of two of the existing Harry Potter books.[72] Achievements Cultural impact For more details on this topic, see Harry Potter fandom. "Platform 9¾" sign on London King's Cross railway station Fans of the series were so eager for the latest instalment that bookstores around the world began holding events to coincide with the midnight release of the books, beginning with the 2000 publication of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. The events, commonly featuring mock sorting, games, face painting, and other live entertainment have achieved popularity with Potter fans and have been highly successful in attracting fans and selling books with nearly nine million of the 10.8 million initial print copies of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince sold in the first 24 hours.[73][74] The final book in the series, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows became the fastest selling book in history, moving 11 million units in the first twenty-four hours of release.[75] The series has also gathered adult fans, leading to the release of two editions of each Harry Potter book, identical in text but with one edition's cover artwork aimed at children and the other aimed at adults.[76] Besides meeting online through blogs, podcasts, and fansites, Harry Potter super-fans can also meet at Harry Potter symposia. The word Muggle has spread beyond its Harry Potter origins, becoming one of few pop culture words to land in the Oxford English Dictionary.[77] The Harry Potter fandom has embraced podcasts as a regular, often weekly, insight to the latest discussion in the fandom. Both MuggleCast and PotterCast[78] have reached the top spot of iTunes podcast rankings and have been polled one of the top 50 favourite podcasts.[79] Commercial success See also: List of best-selling books Crowd outside a book store for the midnight release of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince. The popularity of the Harry Potter series has translated into substantial financial success for Rowling, her publishers, and other Harry Potter related license holders. This success has made Rowling the first and thus far only billionaire author.[80] The books have sold more than 400 million copies worldwide and have also given rise to the popular film adaptations produced by Warner Bros., all of which have been highly successful in their own right.[81][82] The films have in turn spawned eight video games and have led to the licensing of more than 400 additional Harry Potter products (including an iPod). The Harry Potter brand has been estimated to be worth as much as $15 billion.[8] The great demand for Harry Potter books motivated the New York Times to create a separate best-seller list for children's literature in 2000, just before the release of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. By 24 June 2000, Rowling's novels had been on the list for 79 straight weeks; the first three novels were each on the hardcover best-seller list.[83] On 12 April 2007, Barnes & Noble declared that Deathly Hallows had broken its pre-order record, with more than 500,000 copies pre-ordered through its site.[84] For the release of Goblet of Fire, 9,000 FedEx trucks were used with no other purpose than to deliver the book.[85] Together, Amazon.com and Barnes & Noble pre-sold more than 700,000 copies of the book.[85] In the United States, the book's initial printing run was 3.8 million copies.[85] This record statistic was broken by Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, with 8.5 million, which was then shattered by Half-Blood Prince with 10.8 million copies.[86] 6.9 million copies of Prince were sold in the U.S. within the first 24 hours of its release; in the United Kingdom more than two million copies were sold on the first day.[87] The initial U.S. print run for Deathly Hallows was 12 million copies, and more than a million were pre-ordered through Amazon and Barnes & Noble.[88] Awards, honours, and recognition The Harry Potter series have been the recipients of a host of awards since the initial publication of Philosopher's Stone including four Whitaker Platinum Book Awards (all of which were awarded in 2001),[89] three Nestlé Smarties Book Prizes (1997–1999),[90] two Scottish Arts Council Book Awards (1999 and 2001),[91] the inaugural Whitbread children's book of the year award (1999),[92] the WHSmith book of the year (2006),[93] among others. In 2000, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban was nominated for a Hugo Award for Best Novel, and in 2001, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire won said award.[94] Honours include a commendation for the Carnegie Medal (1997),[95] a short listing for the Guardian Children's Award (1998), and numerous listings on the notable books, editors' Choices, and best books lists of the American Library Association, The New York Times, Chicago Public Library, and Publishers Weekly.[96] A 2004 study found that books in the series were commonly read aloud in elementary schools in San Diego County, California.[97] Based on a 2007 online poll, the National Education Association in the U.S. listed the series in its "Teachers' Top 100 Books for Children."[98] Three of the books (Sorcerer’s Stone, Prisoner of Azkaban, and Goblet of Fire) were among the "Top 100 Chapter Books" of all time in a 2012 poll by School Library Journal.[99] Reception Literary criticism British editions of the seven Harry Potter books. L-R: books 6, 7, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. Early in its history, Harry Potter received positive reviews. On publication, the first volume, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, attracted attention from the Scottish newspapers, such as The Scotsman, which said it had "all the makings of a classic",[100] and The Glasgow Herald, which called it "Magic stuff".[100] Soon the English newspapers joined in, with more than one comparing it to Roald Dahl's work: The Mail on Sunday rated it as "the most imaginative debut since Roald Dahl",[100] a view echoed by The Sunday Times ("comparisons to Dahl are, this time, justified"),[100] while The Guardian called it "a richly textured novel given lift-off by an inventive wit".[100] By the time of the release of the fifth volume, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, the books began to receive strong criticism from a number of literary scholars. Yale professor, literary scholar, and critic Harold Bloom raised criticisms of the books' literary merits, saying, "Rowling's mind is so governed by clichés and dead metaphors that she has no other style of writing."[101] A. S. Byatt authored a New York Times op-ed article calling Rowling's universe a "secondary secondary world, made up of intelligently patchworked derivative motifs from all sorts of children's literature ... written for people whose imaginative lives are confined to TV cartoons, and the exaggerated (more exciting, not threatening) mirror-worlds of soaps, reality TV and celebrity gossip".[102] Michael Rosen, a novelist and poet, advocated the books were not suited for children, who would be unable to grasp the complex themes. Rosen also stated that "J. K. Rowling is more of an adult writer."[103] The critic Anthony Holden wrote in The Observer on his experience of judging Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban for the 1999 Whitbread Awards. His overall view of the series was negative—"the Potter saga was essentially patronising, conservative, highly derivative, dispiritingly nostalgic for a bygone Britain", and he speaks of "pedestrian, ungrammatical prose style".[104] Ursula K. Le Guin said, "I have no great opinion of it. When so many adult critics were carrying on about the 'incredible originality' of the first Harry Potter book, I read it to find out what the fuss was about, and remained somewhat puzzled; it seemed a lively kid's fantasy crossed with a "school novel", good fare for its age group, but stylistically ordinary, imaginatively derivative, and ethically rather mean-spirited."[105] By contrast, author Fay Weldon, while admitting that the series is "not what the poets hoped for", nevertheless goes on to say, "but this is not poetry, it is readable, saleable, everyday, useful prose".[106] The literary critic A. N. Wilson praised the Harry Potter series in The Times, stating: "There are not many writers who have JK's Dickensian ability to make us turn the pages, to weep—openly, with tears splashing—and a few pages later to laugh, at invariably good jokes ... We have lived through a decade in which we have followed the publication of the liveliest, funniest, scariest and most moving children's stories ever written".[107] Charles Taylor of Salon.com, who is primarily a movie critic,[108] took issue with Byatt's criticisms in particular. While he conceded that she may have "a valid cultural point—a teeny one—about the impulses that drive us to reassuring pop trash and away from the troubling complexities of art",[109] he rejected her claims that the series is lacking in serious literary merit and that it owes its success merely to the childhood reassurances it offers. Taylor stressed the progressively darker tone of the books, shown by the murder of a classmate and close friend and the psychological wounds and social isolation each causes. Taylor also argued that Philosopher's Stone, said to be the most light-hearted of the seven published books, disrupts the childhood reassurances that Byatt claims spur the series' success: the book opens with news of a double murder, for example.[109] Stephen King called the series "a feat of which only a superior imagination is capable", and declared "Rowling's punning, one-eyebrow-cocked sense of humor" to be "remarkable". However, he wrote that despite the story being "a good one", he is "a little tired of discovering Harry at home with his horrible aunt and uncle", the formulaic beginning of all seven books.[35] King has also joked that "Rowling's never met an adverb she did not like!" He does however predict that Harry Potter "will indeed stand time's test and wind up on a shelf where only the best are kept; I think Harry will take his place with Alice, Huck, Frodo, and Dorothy and this is one series not just for the decade, but for the ages".[110] Social impacts Although Time magazine named Rowling as a runner-up for its 2007 Person of the Year award, noting the social, moral, and political inspiration she has given her fandom,[111] cultural comments on the series have been mixed. Washington Post book critic Ron Charles opined in July 2007 that the large numbers of adults reading the Potter series but few other books may represent a "bad case of cultural infantilism", and that the straightforward "good vs. evil" theme of the series is "childish". He also argued "through no fault of Rowling's", the cultural and marketing "hysteria" marked by the publication of the later books "trains children and adults to expect the roar of the coliseum, a mass-media experience that no other novel can possibly provide".[112] Librarian Nancy Knapp pointed out the books' potential to improve literacy by motivating children to read much more than they otherwise would.[113] Agreeing about the motivating effects, Diane Penrod also praised the books' blending of simple entertainment with "the qualities of highbrow literary fiction", but expressed concern about the distracting effect of the prolific merchandising that accompanies the book launches.[114] Jennifer Conn used Snape's and Quidditch coach Madam Hooch's teaching methods as examples of what to avoid and what to emulate in clinical teaching,[115] and Joyce Fields wrote that the books illustrate four of the five main topics in a typical first-year sociology class: "sociological concepts including culture, society, and socialisation; stratification and social inequality; social institutions; and social theory".[116] Jenny Sawyer wrote in Christian Science Monitor on 25 July 2007 that the books represent a "disturbing trend in commercial storytelling and Western society" in that stories "moral center [sic] have all but vanished from much of today's pop culture ... after 10 years, 4,195 pages, and over 375 million copies, J. K. Rowling's towering achievement lacks the cornerstone of almost all great children's literature: the hero's moral journey". Harry Potter, Sawyer argues, neither faces a "moral struggle" nor undergoes any ethical growth, and is thus "no guide in circumstances in which right and wrong are anything less than black and white".[117] In contrast Emily Griesinger described Harry's first passage through to Platform 9¾ as an application of faith and hope, and his encounter with the Sorting Hat as the first of many in which Harry is shaped by the choices he makes. She also noted the "deeper magic" by which the self-sacrifice of Harry's mother protects the boy throughout the series, and which the power-hungry Voldemort fails to understand.[118] In an 8 November 2002 Slate article, Chris Suellentrop likened Potter to a "trust-fund kid whose success at school is largely attributable to the gifts his friends and relatives lavish upon him". Noting that in Rowling's fiction, magical ability potential is "something you are born to, not something you can achieve", Suellentrop wrote that Dumbledore's maxim that "It is our choices that show what we truly are, far more than our abilities" is hypocritical, as "the school that Dumbledore runs values native gifts above all else".[119] In a 12 August 2007 New York Times review of Deathly Hallows, however, Christopher Hitchens praised Rowling for "unmooring" her "English school story" from literary precedents "bound up with dreams of wealth and class and snobbery", arguing that she had instead created "a world of youthful democracy and diversity".[120] Controversies Main articles: Legal disputes over the Harry Potter series, Religious debates over the Harry Potter series, Politics of Harry Potter, and Tanya Grotter The books have been the subject of a number of legal proceedings, stemming either from claims by American Christian groups that the magic in the books promotes Wicca and witchcraft among children, or from various conflicts over copyright and trademark infringements. The popularity and high market value of the series has led Rowling, her publishers, and film distributor Warner Bros. to take legal measures to protect their copyright, which have included banning the sale of Harry Potter imitations, targeting the owners of websites over the "Harry Potter" domain name, and suing author Nancy Stouffer to counter her accusations that Rowling had plagiarised her work.[121][122][123] Various religious conservatives have claimed that the books promote witchcraft and religions such as Wicca and are therefore unsuitable for children,[124][125] while a number of critics have criticised the books for promoting various political agendas.[126][127] The books also aroused controversies in the literary and publishing worlds. In 1997 to 1998, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone won almost all the UK awards judged by children, but none of the children's book awards judged by adults,[128] and Sandra Beckett suggested the reason was intellectual snobbery towards books that were popular among children.[129] In 1999, the winner of the Whitbread Book of the Year Award children's division was entered for the first time on the shortlist for the main award, and one judge threatened to resign if Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban was declared the overall winner; it finished second, very close behind the winner of the poetry prize, Seamus Heaney's translation of the Anglo-Saxon epic Beowulf.[129] In 2000, shortly before the publication of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, the previous three Harry Potter books topped the New York Times fiction best-seller list and a third of the entries were children's books. The newspaper created a new children's section covering children's books, including both fiction and non-fiction, and initially counting only hardback sales. The move was supported by publishers and booksellers.[83] In 2004, The New York Times further split the children's list, which was still dominated by Harry Potter books into sections for series and individual books, and removed the Harry Potter books from the section for individual books.[130] The split in 2000 attracted condemnation, praise and some comments that presented both benefits and disadvantages of the move.[131] Time suggested that, on the same principle, Billboard should have created a separate "mop-tops" list in 1964 when the Beatles held the top five places in its list, and Nielsen should have created a separate game-show list when Who Wants to Be a Millionaire? dominated the ratings.[132] Adaptations Films Main article: Harry Potter (film series) The locomotive that features as the "Hogwarts Express" in the film series. In 1998, Rowling sold the film rights of the first four Harry Potter books to Warner Bros. for a reported £1 million ($1,982,900).[133][134] Rowling demanded the principal cast be kept strictly British, nonetheless allowing for the inclusion of Irish actors such as the late Richard Harris as Dumbledore, and for casting of French and Eastern Europe actors in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire where characters from the book are specified as such.[135] After many directors including Steven Spielberg, Terry Gilliam, Jonathan Demme, and Alan Parker were considered, Chris Columbus was appointed on 28 March 2000 as director for Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (titled "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone" in the United States), with Warner Bros. citing his work on other family films such as Home Alone and Mrs. Doubtfire and proven experience with directing children as influences for their decision.[136] After extensive casting, filming began in October 2000 at Leavesden Film Studios and in London itself, with production ending in July 2001.[137][138] Philosopher's Stone was released on 14 November 2001. Just three days after the film's release, production for Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, also directed by Columbus, began. Filming was completed in summer 2002, with the film being released on 15 November 2002.[139] Daniel Radcliffe portrayed Harry Potter, doing so for all succeeding films in the franchise. Columbus declined to direct Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, only acting as producer. Mexican director Alfonso Cuarón took over the job, and after shooting in 2003, the film was released on 4 June 2004. Due to the fourth film beginning its production before the third's release, Mike Newell was chosen as the director for Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, released on 18 November 2005.[140] Newell became the first British director of the series, with television director David Yates following suit after he was chosen to helm Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. Production began in January 2006 and the film was released the following year in July 2007.[141] After executives were "really delighted" with his work on the film, Yates was selected to direct Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, which was released on 15 July 2009.[142][143][144][145] Gringotts Wizarding Bank as seen in the film series. In March 2008, Warner Bros. President and COO Alan F. Horn announced that the final instalment in the series, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, would be released in two cinematic parts: Part 1 on 19 November 2010 and Part 2 on 15 July 2011. Production of both parts started in February 2009, with the final day of principal photography taking place on 12 June 2010.[146][147] Rowling had creative control on the film series, observing the filmmaking process of Philosopher's Stone and serving as producer on the two-part Deathly Hallows, alongside David Heyman and David Barron.[148] The Harry Potter films have been top-rank box office hits, with all eight releases on the list of highest-grossing films worldwide. Philosopher's Stone was the highest-grossing Harry Potter film up until the release of the final installment of the series, Deathly Hallows, while Prisoner of Azkaban grossed the least.[149] As well as being a financial success, the film series has also been a success among film critics.[150][151] Opinions of the films are generally divided among fans, with one group preferring the more faithful approach of the first two films, and another group preferring the more stylised character-driven approach of the later films.[152] Rowling has been constantly supportive of all the films and evaluated Deathly Hallows as her "favourite one" in the series.[153][154][155][156] She wrote on her website of the changes in the book-to-film transition, "It is simply impossible to incorporate every one of my storylines into a film that has to be kept under four hours long. Obviously films have restrictions novels do not have, constraints of time and budget; I can create dazzling effects relying on nothing but the interaction of my own and my readers' imaginations".[157] At the 64th British Academy Film Awards in February 2011, Rowling was joined by producers David Heyman and David Barron along with directors David Yates, Alfonso Cuarón and Mike Newell in collecting the Michael Balcon Award for Outstanding British Contribution to Cinema on behalf of all the films in the series. Actors Rupert Grint and Emma Watson, who play main characters Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, were also in attendance.[158][159] Games There are eleven Harry Potter video games, eight of which correspond with the films and books, and three other spin-offs. The film/book based games are produced by Electronic Arts, as was Harry Potter: Quidditch World Cup, with the game version of the first entry in the series, Philosopher's Stone, being released in November 2001. The video games are released to coincide with the films, containing scenery and details from the films as well as the tone and spirit of the books. Objectives usually occur in and around Hogwarts, along with various other magical areas. The story and design of the games follows the selected film's characterisation and plot; EA worked closely with Warner Brothers to include scenes from the films. The last game in the series, Deathly Hallows, was split with Part 1 released in November 2010 and Part 2 debuting on consoles in July 2011. The two-part game forms the first entry to convey an intense theme of action and violence, with the gameplay revolving around a third-person shooter style format.[160][161] The other spin-offs games, LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1–4 and LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5–7 are developed by Traveller's Tales and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment. A number of other non-interactive media games have been released; board games such as Cluedo Harry Potter Edition, Scene It? Harry Potter and Lego Harry Potter models, which are influenced by the themes of both the novels and films. 2001: Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone 2002: Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets 2004: Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban 2005: Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire 2007: Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix 2009: Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince 2010: Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1 2011: Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 Audiobooks All seven Harry Potter books have been released in unabridged audiobook versions, with Stephen Fry reading for listeners in the UK, and Jim Dale voicing the series for the American editions.[162][163] Stage production On 20 December 2013 J. K. Rowling announced that she was working on a Harry Potter–based play for which she would be one of the producers. In her statement, the author said that the play will "explore the previously untold story of Harry's early years as an orphan and outcast". British theater producers Sonia Friedman and Colin Callender will be the co-producers.[164][165] Attractions United States Main article: The Wizarding World of Harry Potter (Islands of Adventure) Hogwarts Castle as depicted in the Wizarding World of Harry Potter located in Universal Orlando Resort's Island of Adventure. After the success of the films and books, Universal and Warner Brothers announced they would create "The Wizarding World of Harry Potter," a new Harry Potter-themed expansion to the Islands of Adventure theme park at Universal Orlando Resort in Florida. The new land, promoted as the seventh themed "island" of the park, was built from land reserved for expansion outside of the park's original border, as well as from much of the existing "island," The Lost Continent. A soft opening was held at the end of March 2010, with the land opening on 16 June 2010 for reserved guests. The land officially opened to the public on 18 June 2010.[166] Guests enter the land through a recreation of the Hogsmeade station,[167] leading into the village of Hogsmeade, with a forced-perspective Hogwarts castle at the very end of the street. The castle contains the expansion's centrepiece attraction, Harry Potter & the Forbidden Journey, a KUKA arm attraction which takes passengers through many realistic scenes influenced by the movies and books, including soaring over Hogwarts, getting involved in a Quidditch match, and having close encounters with dragons, dementors, and the Whomping Willow.[168] Other attractions include a twin high-speed rollercoaster named the Dragon Challenge, a renovation of the previously existing rollercoaster, Dueling Dragons, and a family roller coaster called Flight of the Hippogriff, a renovation of the previously existing ride, Flying Unicorn. In addition to the three rides are several themed shops and restaurants, heavily inspired by their appearances in the books and films: Honeydukes sells sweets, such as chocolate frogs and Bertie Bott's Every-Flavour Beans, Ollivander's offers personalised magic wands, Zonko's Joke Shop sells various items including Sneakoscopes, and the Three Broomsticks serves food and drink, most notably Butterbeer and pumpkin juice. Developed at a cost of $265 million, the new land "has seen capacity crowds [and] waits of up to two hours just to enter the ... merchandise shop." Islands of Adventure saw a massive increase in attendance following the expansion, seeing gains of as much as 36%,[169] a period during which attendance to competitor resort Walt Disney World dropped slightly.[170] Disney had itself entered negotiations for a Harry Potter-themed expansion, but ultimately turned down the opportunity.[171] United Kingdom In March 2011, Warner Bros. announced plans to build a tourist attraction in the United Kingdom to showcase the Harry Potter film series. Warner Bros. Studio Tour London is a behind-the-scenes walking tour featuring authentic sets, costumes and props from the film series. The attraction is located at Warner Bros. Studios, Leavesden, where all eight of the Harry Potter films were made. Warner Bros. constructed two new sound stages to house and showcase the famous sets from each of the British-made productions, following a £100 million investment.[172] It opened to the public in March 2012.[173] See also Book: Harry Potter Mary GrandPré Children's literature portal Harry Potter portal References ^ PETER SVENSSON 27 March 2012 (27 March 2012). "Harry Potter breaks e-book lockdown - Yahoo! News". News.yahoo.com. Retrieved 29 July 2013.  ^ Allsobrook, Dr. Marian (18 June 2003). "Potter's place in the literary canon". BBC News. Retrieved 15 October 2007.  ^ a b "Rowling 'makes £5 every second'". British Broadcasting Corporation. 3 October 2008. Retrieved 17 October 2008.  ^ TIME Staff (31 July 2013). "Because It’s His Birthday: Harry Potter, By the Numbers". Time. Archived from the original on 1 August 2013.  ^ Sources that refer to the many genres, cultural meanings and references of the series include: Fry, Stephen (10 December 2005). "Living with Harry Potter". BBC Radio 4. Archived from the original on 2 June 2009. Retrieved 10 December 2005.  Jenson, Jeff (7 September 2000). "Harry Up!". Entertainment Weekly. Retrieved 20 September 2007.  Nancy Carpentier Brown (2007). "The Last Chapter". Our Sunday Visitor. Retrieved 28 April 2009.  J. K. Rowling. "J. K. Rowling at the Edinburgh Book Festival". Archived from the original on 20 August 2006. Retrieved 10 October 2006.  ^ a b Geordie Greig (11 January 2006). "'There would be so much to tell her...'". The Daily Telegraph (London). Retrieved 4 April 2007.  ^ a b Lizo Mzimba (28 July 2008). "Interview with Steve Kloves and J.K. Rowling". Quick Quotes Quill. Archived from the original on 13 May 2010.  ^ a b Thompson, Susan (2 April 2008). "Business big shot: Harry Potter author JK Rowling". The Times (London). Retrieved 14 July 2009.  ^ Lemmerman, Kristin (14 July 2000). "Review: Gladly drinking from Rowling's 'Goblet of Fire'". CNN. Retrieved 28 September 2008.  ^ a b "A Muggle's guide to Harry Potter". BBC News. 28 May 2004. Retrieved 22 August 2008.  ^ Hajela, Deepti (14 July 2005). "Plot summaries for the first five Potter books". SouthFlorida.com. Archived from the original on 15 May 2010. Retrieved 29 September 2008.  ^ Foster, Julie (October 2001). "Potter books: Wicked witchcraft?". Koinonia House. Retrieved 15 May 2010.  ^ The years are first established by Nearly Headless Nick's deathday cake in Chamber of Secrets, which indicates that Harry's second year takes place from 1992–93. Rowling, J. K. (1998). "The Deathday Party". Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets. Bloomsbury. ISBN 0747538492.  The years are also established by the death of date of Harry's parents, given in Deathly Hallows. Rowling, J. K. (2007). "Godric's Hollow". Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. Bloomsbury. ISBN 1551929767.  ^ Farndale, Nigel (15 July 2007). "Harry Potter and the parallel universe". The Daily Telegraph (London). Retrieved 28 September 2008.  ^ a b c d e Memmott, Carol (19 July 2007). "The Harry Potter stories so far: A quick CliffsNotes review". USA Today. Retrieved 28 September 2008.  ^ "J K Rowling at the Edinburgh Book Festival". J.K. Rowling.com. 15 August 2004. Archived from the original on 23 August 2008. Retrieved 27 September 2008.  ^ Maguire, Gregory (5 September 1999). "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban". The New York Times. Retrieved 28 September 2008.  ^ King, Stephen (23 July 2000). "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire". The New York Times. Retrieved 28 September 2008.  ^ a b c Leonard, John (13 July 2003). "'Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix'". The New York Times. Retrieved 28 September 2008.  ^ A Whited, Lana (2004). The Ivory Tower and Harry Potter: Perspectives on a Literary Phenomenon. University of Missouri Press. p. 371. ISBN 978-0-8262-1549-9.  ^ Kakutani, Michiko (16 July 2005). "Harry Potter Works His Magic Again in a Far Darker Tale". The New York Times. Retrieved 28 September 2008.  ^ Atkinson, Simon (19 July 2007). "How Rowling conjured up millions". BBC News. Retrieved 7 September 2008.  ^ "Comic Relief : Quidditch through the ages". Albris. Retrieved 7 September 2008.  ^ "The Money". Comic Relief. Archived from the original on 15 May 2010. Retrieved 25 October 2007.  ^ "JK Rowling book fetches £2 m". BBC News. 13 December 2007. Retrieved 13 December 2007.  ^ "The Tales of Beedle the Bard". Amazon.com. Retrieved 14 December 2007.  ^ Williams, Rachel (29 May 2008). "Rowling pens Potter prequel for charities". The Guardian (London). Retrieved 30 March 2010.  Retrieved 31 May 2008. ^ "J.K. Rowling Has Mysterious New Potter Website". ABC News. Associated Press. 16 June 2011. Retrieved 16 June 2011.  ^ "Waiting for Pottermore?". Pottermore Insider. 8 March 2012. Retrieved 9 March 2012.  ^ Gilder Cooke, Sonia van (23 June 2011). "‘Pottermore’ Secrets Revealed: J.K. Rowling’s New Site is E-Book Meets Interactive World". Time. Retrieved 6 January 2013.  ^ Anne Le Lievre, Kerrie (2003). "Wizards and wainscots: generic structures and genre themes in the Harry Potter series". CNET Networks. Archived from the original on 29 May 2010. Retrieved 1 September 2008.  ^ "Harry Potter makes boarding fashionable". BBC. 13 December 1999. Retrieved 1 September 2008.  ^ Ellen Jones, Leslie (2003). JRR Tolkien: A Biography. Greenwood Press. p. 16. ISBN 978-0-313-32340-9.  |accessdate= requires |url= (help) ^ A Whited, Lana (2004). The Ivory Tower and Harry Potter: Perspectives on a Literary Phenomenon. University of Missouri Press. p. 28. ISBN 978-0-8262-1549-9.  ^ a b King, Stephen (23 July 2000). "Wild About Harry". The New York Times. Retrieved 9 August 2010. "...the Harry Potter books are, at heart, satisfyingly shrewd mystery tales."  ^ a b Grossman, Lev (28 June 2007). "Harry Potter's Last Adventure". Time Inc. Retrieved 1 September 2008.  ^ "Two characters to die in last 'Harry Potter' book: J.K. Rowling". CBC. 26 June 2006. Archived from the original on 12 May 2010. Retrieved 1 September 2008.  ^ Greenwald, Janey; Greenwald, J (Fall 2005). "Understanding Harry Potter: Parallels to the Deaf World" (Free full text). The Journal of Deaf Studies and Deaf Education 10 (4): 442–450. doi:10.1093/deafed/eni041. PMID 16000691.  ^ Duffy, Edward (2002). "Sentences in Harry Potter, Students in Future Writing Classes". Rhetoric Review 21 (2): 177. doi:10.1207/S15327981RR2102_03.  ^ "JK Rowling outs Dumbledore as gay". BBC News. 21 October 2007. Retrieved 21 October 2007.  ^ "About the Books: transcript of J.K. Rowling's live interview on Scholastic.com". Quick-Quote-Quill. 16 February 1999. Archived from the original on 13 May 2010. Retrieved 28 July 2008.  ^ Max, Wyman (26 October 2000). ""You can lead a fool to a book but you cannot make them think": Author has frank words for the religious right". The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia). Retrieved 28 July 2008.  ^ Rowling, JK (2006). "Biography". JKRowling.com. Archived from the original on 21 April 2006. Retrieved 21 May 2006.  ^ "Final Harry Potter book set for release". Euskal Telebista. 15 July 2007. Retrieved 21 August 2008.  ^ Lawless, John (2005). "Nigel Newton". The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. Retrieved 9 September 2006.  ^ a b A Whited, Lana (2004). The Ivory Tower and Harry Potter: Perspectives on a Literary Phenomenon. University of Missouri Press. p. 351. ISBN 978-0-8262-1549-9.  ^ Huler, Scott. "The magic years". The News & Observer. Retrieved 28 September 2008. [dead link] ^ Savill, Richard (21 June 2001). "Harry Potter and the mystery of J K's lost initial". The Daily Telegraph (London). Retrieved 27 September 2008.  ^ "The Potter phenomenon". BBC News. 18 February 2003. Retrieved 27 September 2008.  ^ "Wild about Harry". NYP Holdings, Inc. 2 July 2007. Retrieved 27 September 2008. [dead link] ^ Rozhon, Tracie (21 April 2007). "A Brief Walk Through Time at Scholastic". The New York Times. p. C3. Retrieved 21 April 2007.  ^ "A Potter timeline for muggles". Toronto Star. 14 July 2007. Retrieved 27 September 2008.  ^ "Speed-reading after lights out". London: Guardian News and Media Limited. 19 July 2000. Retrieved 27 September 2008.  ^ Harmon, Amy (14 July 2003). "Harry Potter and the Internet Pirates". The New York Times. Retrieved 21 August 2008.  ^ Cassy, John (16 January 2003). "Harry Potter and the hottest day of summer". The Guardian (London: Guardian News and Media Limited). Retrieved 27 September 2008.  ^ "July date for Harry Potter book". BBC News. 21 December 2004. Retrieved 27 September 2008.  ^ a b "Harry Potter finale sales hit 11m". BBC News. 23 July 2007. Retrieved 21 August 2008.  ^ "Rowling unveils last Potter date". BBC News. 1 February 2007. Retrieved 27 September 2008.  ^ Dammann, Guy (18 June 2008). "Harry Potter breaks 400m in sales". London: Guardian News and Media Limited. Retrieved 17 October 2008.  ^ KMaul (2005). "Guinness World Records: L. Ron Hubbard Is the Most Translated Author". The Book Standard. Archived from the original on 12 May 2010. Retrieved 19 July 2007.  ^ Wilson, Andrew (2006). "Harry Potter in Greek". Andrew Wilson. Retrieved 28 July 2008.  ^ Castle, Tim (2 December 2004). "Harry Potter? It's All Greek to Me". Reuters. Retrieved 28 July 2008.  ^ Güler, Emrah (2005). "Not lost in translation: Harry Potter in Turkish". The Turkish Daily News. Archived from the original on 15 May 2010. Retrieved 9 May 2007.  ^ Staff Writer (1 July 2003). "OOTP is best seller in France — in English!". BBC News. Retrieved 28 July 2008.  ^ "Differences in the UK and US Versions of Four Harry Potter Books". FAST US-1. 21 January 2008. Retrieved 17 August 2008.  ^ "J.K.Rowling Official Site. Section: Welcome!". 25 December 2005. Archived from the original on 30 December 2005. Retrieved 18 July 2011.  ^ "Potter author signs off in style". BBC News. 2 February 2007. Retrieved 5 January 2010.  ^ "Rowling to kill two in final book". BBC News. 27 June 2006. Retrieved 25 July 2007.  ^ "Harry Potter and Me". BBC News. 28 December 2001. Retrieved 12 September 2007.  ^ "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows at Bloomsbury Publishing". Bloomsbury Publishing. Retrieved 28 September 2008.  ^ "Cover Art: Harry Potter 7". Scholastic. Archived from the original on 12 May 2010. Retrieved 28 September 2008.  ^ "JK Rowling mulls 'director's cut' of Harry Potter books". 26 September 2012. Retrieved 9 September 2013.  ^ Freeman, Simon (18 July 2005). "Harry Potter casts spell at checkouts". The Times (London). Retrieved 29 July 2008.  ^ "Potter book smashes sales records". BBC News. 18 July 2005. Retrieved 29 July 2008.  ^ "'Harry Potter' tale is fastest-selling book in history". The New York Times. 23 July 2007. Retrieved 30 March 2010.  ^ "Harry Potter at Bloomsbury Publishing — Adult and Children Covers". Bloomsbury Publishing. Retrieved 18 August 2008.  ^ McCaffrey, Meg (1 May 2003). "'Muggle' Redux in the Oxford English Dictionary". School Library Journal. Retrieved 1 May 2007.  ^ "Book corner: Secrets of Podcasting". Apple Inc. 8 September 2005. Retrieved 31 January 2007.  ^ "Mugglenet.com Taps Limelight's Magic for Podcast Delivery of Harry Potter Content". PR Newswire. 8 November 2005. Retrieved 31 January 2007.  ^ Watson, Julie (26 February 2004). "J. K. Rowling And The Billion-Dollar Empire". Forbes. Retrieved 3 December 2007.  ^ "All Time Worldwide Box Office Grosses". Box Office Mojo, LLC. 1998–2008. Retrieved 29 July 2008.  Check date values in: |date= (help) ^ Booth, Jenny (1 November 2007). "J.K. Rowling publishes Harry Potter spin-off". London: Telegraph.com. Retrieved 28 September 2008.  ^ a b Smith, Dinitia (24 June 2000). "The Times Plans a Children's Best-Seller List". The New York Times. Retrieved 30 September 2008.  ^ "New Harry Potter breaks pre-order record". RTÉ.ie Entertainment. 13 April 2007. Retrieved 23 April 2007.  ^ a b c Fierman, Daniel (31 August 2005). "Wild About Harry". Entertainment Weekly (ew.com). Retrieved 4 March 2007. "When I buy the books for my grandchildren, I have them all gift wrapped but one...that's for me. And I have not been 12 for over 50 years."  ^ "Harry Potter hits midnight frenzy". CNN. 15 July 2005. Archived from the original on 21 December 2006. Retrieved 15 January 2007.  ^ "Worksheet: Half-Blood Prince sets UK record". BBC News. 20 July 2005. Retrieved 19 January 2007.  ^ "Record print run for final Potter". BBC News. 15 March 2007. Retrieved 22 May 2007.  ^ "Book honour for Harry Potter author". BBC News. 21 September 2001. Retrieved 28 September 2008.  ^ "JK Rowling: From rags to riches". BBC News. 20 September 2008. Retrieved 28 September 2008.  ^ "Book 'Oscar' for Potter author". BBC News. 30 May 2001. Retrieved 28 September 2008.  ^ "Harry Potter casts a spell on the world". CNN. 18 July 1999. Retrieved 28 September 2008.  ^ "Harry Potter: Meet J.K. Rowling". Scholastic Inc. Archived from the original on 15 May 2010. Retrieved 27 September 2008.  ^ "Moviegoers get wound up over 'Watchmen'". MSNBC. 22 July 2008. Retrieved 28 September 2008.  ^ "Harry Potter beaten to top award". BBC News. 7 July 2000. Retrieved 28 September 2008.  ^ Levine, Arthur (2001–2005). "Awards". Arthur A. Levine Books. Retrieved 21 May 2006.  Check date values in: |date= (help) ^ Fisher, Douglas, et al. (2004). "Interactive Read-Alouds: Is There a Common Set of Implementation Practices?". The Reading Teacher 58 (1): 8–17. doi:10.1598/RT.58.1.1. Retrieved 19 August 2012.  ^ National Education Association (2007). "Teachers' Top 100 Books for Children". Retrieved 19 August 2012.  ^ Bird, Elizabeth (7 July 2012). "Top 100 Chapter Book Poll Results". School Library Journal "A Fuse No. 8 Production" blog. Retrieved 19 August 2012.  ^ a b c d e Eccleshare, Julia (2002). A Guide to the Harry Potter Novels. Continuum International Publishing Group. p. 10. ISBN 978-0-8264-5317-4.  ^ Bloom, Harold (24 September 2003). "Dumbing down American readers". The Boston Globe. Retrieved 20 June 2006.  ^ Byatt, A. S. (7 July 2003). "Harry Potter and the Childish Adult". The New York Times. Retrieved 1 August 2008.  ^ Sweeney, Charlene (19 May 2008). "Harry Potter 'is too boring and grown-up for young readers'". The Times (London). Retrieved 15 January 2011.  ^ Holden, Anthony (25 June 2000). "Why Harry Potter does not cast a spell over me". The Observer (London). Retrieved 1 August 2008.  ^ "Chronicles of Earthsea". The Guardian (London). 9 February 2004. Retrieved 2 October 2009.  ^ Allison, Rebecca (11 July 2003). "Rowling books 'for people with stunted imaginations'". The Guardian (London). Retrieved 1 August 2008.  ^ Wilson, A. N. (29 July 2007). "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows by JK Rowling". The Times (London). Retrieved 28 September 2008.  ^ "Salon Columnist". Salon.com. 2000. Retrieved 3 August 2008.  ^ a b Taylor, Charles (8 July 2003). "A. S. Byatt and the goblet of bile". Salon.com. Retrieved 3 August 2008.  ^ Fox, Killian (31 December 2006). "JK Rowling: The mistress of all she surveys". The Guardian (London). Retrieved 10 February 2007.  ^ "Person of the Year 2007 Runners-Up: J. K. Rowling". Time magazine. 23 December 2007. Retrieved 23 December 2007.  ^ Charles, Ron (15 July 2007). "Harry Potter and the Death of Reading". Washington Post. Retrieved 16 April 2008.  ^ Knapp, N.F. (2003). "In Defense of Harry Potter: An Apologia". School Libraries Worldwide (International Association of School Librarianship) 9 (1): 78–91. Retrieved 14 May 2009.  ^ Penrod, D (December 2001). "The Trouble with Harry: A Reason for Teaching Media Literacy to Young Adults". The Writing Instructor (Professional Writing Program at Purdue University). Retrieved 16 May 2009.  ^ Conn, J.J. (2002). "What can clinical teachers learn from Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone?". Medical Education 36 (12): 1176–1181. doi:10.1046/j.1365-2923.2002.01376.x. PMID 12472752.  ^ Fields, J.W. (2007). "Harry Potter, Benjamin Bloom, and the Sociological Imagination". International Journal of Teaching and Learning in Higher Education 19 (2). Retrieved 15 May 2009.  ^ Sawyer, Jenny (25 July 2007). "Missing from 'Harry Potter" – a real moral struggle". The Christian Science Monitor. Retrieved 16 April 2008.  ^ Griesinger, E. (2002). "Harry Potter and the "deeper magic": narrating hope in children's literature". Christianity and Literature 51 (3): 455–480. Retrieved 15 May 2009.  ^ Suellentrop, Chris (8 November 2002). "Harry Potter: Fraud". Slate. Retrieved 16 April 2008.  ^ Hitchens, Christopher (12 August 2007). "The Boy Who Lived". The New York Times. Retrieved 1 April 2008.  ^ "SScholastic Inc, J.K. Rowling and Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P, Plaintiffs/Counterclaim Defendants, -against- Nancy Stouffer: United States District Court for the Southern District of New York". ICQ. 17 September 2002. Retrieved 12 June 2007.  ^ McCarthy, Kieren (2000). "Warner Brothers bullying ruins Field family Xmas". The Register. Retrieved 3 May 2007.  ^ "Fake Harry Potter novel hits China". BBC News. 4 July 2002. Retrieved 11 March 2007.  ^ Reading Harry Potter: critical essays - Page 54, Giselle Liza Anatol - 2003 ^ Olsen, Ted. "Opinion Roundup: Positive About Potter". Cesnur.org. Retrieved 6 July 2007.  ^ Bonta, Steve (28 January 2002). "Tolkien's Timeless Tale". The New American 18 (2).  ^ Liddle, Rod (21 July 2007). "Hogwarts is a winner because boys will be sexist neocon boys". The Times (London). Retrieved 17 August 2008.  ^ Eccleshare, J. (2002). "The Publishing of a Phenomenon". A guide to the Harry Potter novels. Continuum International. pp. 7–14. ISBN 0-8264-5317-1. Retrieved 15 May 2009.  ^ a b Beckett, S.L. (2008). "Child-to-Adult Crossover Fiction". Crossover Fiction. Taylor & Francis. pp. 112–115. ISBN 0-415-98033-X. Retrieved 16 May 2009.  ^ Garner, D. (1 May 2008). "Ten Years Later, Harry Potter Vanishes From the Best-Seller List". The New York Times. Retrieved 16 May 2009.  ^ Bolonik, K. (16 August 2000). "A list of their own". Salon.com. Retrieved 16 May 2009.  ^ Corliss, R. (21 July 2000). "Why 'Harry Potter' Did a Harry Houdini". Time. Retrieved 16 May 2009.  ^ "Books: Cover Stories At the Frankfurt Book Fair". The Independent (London). 10 October 1998. Retrieved 18 July 2009.  ^ "WiGBPd About Harry". The Australian Financial Review. 19 July 2000. Retrieved 26 May 2007.  ^ "Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone". The Guardian (London). 16 November 2001. Retrieved 26 May 2007.  ^ Linder, Bran (28 March 2000). "Chris Columbus to Direct Harry Potter". IGN. Retrieved 8 July 2007.  ^ "Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson bring Harry, Ron and Hermione to life for Warner Bros. Pictures: Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone". Warner Brothers. 21 August 2000. Archived from the original on 15 May 2010. Retrieved 26 May 2007.  ^ Schmitz, Greg Dean. "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone (2001)". Yahoo!. Retrieved 30 May 2007.  ^ "Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (2002)". Yahoo! Inc. Retrieved 18 August 2008.  ^ "Goblet Helmer Confirmed". IGN. 11 August 2003. Retrieved 29 July 2007.  ^ Daly, Steve (6 April 2007). "'Phoenix' Rising". Entertainment Weekly. p. 28. Retrieved 1 April 2007.  ^ "David Yates Dark Horizons Interview, OOTP and HBP Production". Darkhorizons.com. 13 July 2009. Retrieved 24 February 2011.  ^ Spelling, Ian (3 May 2007). "Yates Confirmed For Potter VI". Sci Fi Wire. Archived from the original on 13 May 2010. Retrieved 3 May 2007.  ^ "Coming Sooner: Harry Potter Changes Release Date". TVGuide.com. Retrieved 15 April 2009.  ^ "Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince". Market Watch. 14 August 2008. Retrieved 17 August 2008.  ^ Boucher, Geoff (13 March 2008). "Final 'Harry Potter' book will be split into two movies". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved 13 March 2008.  ^ "Last Day 12 June 2010". Snitchseeker.com. Retrieved 24 February 2011.  ^ "Warner Bros. Pictures mentions J. K. Rowling as producer". Business Wire. 20 September 2010. Retrieved 24 February 2011.  ^ "All Time Worldwide Box Office Grosses". Box Office Mojo. Retrieved 29 July 2007.  ^ "Box Office Harry Potter". The-numbers.com. Retrieved 24 February 2011.  ^ "Box Office Mojo". boxofficemojo.com. Retrieved 11 March 2011.  ^ "Harry Potter: Books vs films". Digital Spy. Retrieved 7 September 2008.  ^ "Potter Power!". Time For Kids. Retrieved 31 May 2007. [dead link] ^ Puig, Claudia (27 May 2004). "New 'Potter' movie sneaks in spoilers for upcoming books". USA Today. Retrieved 31 May 2007.  ^ "JK 'loves' Goblet Of Fire movie". Newsround (BBC). 7 November 2005. Retrieved 31 May 2007.  ^ "Exclusive: Harry Potter Director David Yates". Comingsoon.net. 13 July 2009. Retrieved 19 June 2010.  ^ Rowling, J. K. "How did you feel about the POA filmmakers leaving the Marauder's Map's background out of the story? (A Mugglenet/Lexicon question)". J. K. Rowling. Retrieved 6 September 2008. [dead link] ^ "Harry Potter franchise to get Outstanding BAFTA award". BBC News. 3 February 2011. Retrieved 3 February 2011.  ^ "Outstanding British Contribution to Cinema in 2011 – The Harry Potter films". BAFTA. 3 February 2011. Retrieved 3 February 2011.  ^ EA Harry Potter Retrieved 19 June 2010. ^ EA Harry Potter gameplay Retrieved 19 June 2010. ^ Valentine, James (13 July 2012). "It's time for the compleat, omnipresent me". The Australian. Retrieved 9 August 2012.  ^ "Creator Bryan Fuller Hints at PUSHING DAISIES Broadway-Bound 'Revival'". broadwayworld.com. 16 July 2012. Retrieved 9 August 2012.  ^ "J.K. Rowling to Work on Harry Potter Stage Play". 20 December 2013. Retrieved 22 December 2013.  ^ "J.K. Rowling to produce Harry Potter stage play". 20 December 2013. Retrieved 22 December 2013.  ^ Garcia, Jason (17 June 2010). "Big day is here: Universal hopes Harry Potter's magic will last". Orlando Sentinel. Retrieved 19 June 2010.  ^ "Hogwarts opens in Florida: Amazing new Harry Potter theme park to cast its spell over British tourists". Daily Mail (London). 19 September 2009. Retrieved 19 September 2009.  ^ "Wizarding World of Harry Potter theme park opens". Australia Times. 19 June 2010. Retrieved 19 June 2010.  ^ Brigante, Ricky. "Harry Potter gives Universal's Islands of Adventure park huge attendance boost in 2010 – but numbers still don't rival Disney's". Inside the Magic. Retrieved 4 May 2011.  ^ "Disney World Attendance Declines Slightly". WESH. 10 August 2010. Retrieved 4 May 2011.  ^ Barbaro, Michael (8 January 2011). "A Wizard Rivals Mickey". The New York Times. p. A14. Retrieved 9 January 2011.  ^ "Harry Potter tour to open at Leavesden studios in 2012". BBC News. 5 March 2011. Retrieved 18 May 2011.  ^ "Harry Potter tour at Leavesden Studios reveals new sets". BBC News. 19 December 2011. Retrieved 16 February 2012.  Further reading Agarwal, Nikita; Chitra Agarwal (2005). Friends and Foes of Harry Potter: Names Decoded. Outskirts Press. ISBN 1-59800-221-X  Cite uses deprecated parameters (help) Anatol, Giselle Liza (2003). Reading Harry Potter: critical essays. Praeger. ISBN 0-313-32067-5  Burkart, Gina (2005). A parent's guide to Harry Potter. InterVarsity Press. ISBN 0-8308-3288-2  Duriez, Colin (2007). Field Guide to Harry Potter. IVP Books. ISBN 978-0-8308-3430-3  Gunelius, Susan (2008). Harry Potter: the story of a global business phenomenon. Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN 0-230-20323-X  Heilman, Elizabeth E (2008). Critical perspectives on Harry Potter. Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-96484-5  Mulholland, Neil (2007). The psychology of Harry Potter: an unauthorized examination of the boy who lived. BenBella Books. ISBN 978-1-932100-88-4  Silvester, William (2010). Harry Potter Collector's Handbook. Krause. ISBN 978-1-4402-0897-3  External links Listen to this article (info/dl) Sorry, your browser either has JavaScript disabled or does not have any supported player. You can download the clip or download a player to play the clip in your browser. This audio file was created from a revision of the "Harry Potter" article dated 2011-01-02, and does not reflect subsequent edits to the article. (Audio help) More spoken articles Look up Appendix:Harry Potter in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Wikibooks has a book on the topic of: Muggles' Guide to Harry Potter Wikiquote has a collection of quotations related to: Harry Potter Wikimedia Commons has media related to Harry Potter. Harry Potter, an external wiki Harry Potter fanon, an external wiki J. K. Rowling's personal website Harry Potter movies – Official website (Warner Bros.) Harry Potter at Bloomsbury.com (International publisher) Harry Potter at Scholastic.com (US publisher) Harry Potter at Raincoast.com (Canadian publisher) Works by or about Harry Potter in libraries (WorldCat catalog) Harry Potter collected news and commentary at The Guardian Harry Potter collected news and commentary at The New York Times Harry Potter collected news and commentary at The Wall Street Journal v t e The Harry Potter series by J. K. Rowling Philosopher's Stone Film Soundtrack Game Chamber of Secrets Film Soundtrack Game Prisoner of Azkaban Film Soundtrack Game Goblet of Fire Film Soundtrack Game Order of the Phoenix Film Soundtrack Game Half-Blood Prince Film Soundtrack Game Deathly Hallows Film 1 · 2 Soundtrack 1 · 2 Game 1 · 2 Characters Main Harry Potter Ron Weasley Hermione Granger Lord Voldemort Albus Dumbledore Severus Snape Rubeus Hagrid Draco Malfoy Supporting Hogwarts staff Order of the Phoenix Dumbledore's Army Death Eaters Universe Hogwarts Magic Magical creatures Magical objects Ministry of Magic Muggle Places Quidditch Spells Related works Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them Quidditch Through the Ages The Tales of Beedle the Bard Prequel Pottermore Film series Cast members Music Production of Deathly Hallows Games Quidditch World Cup Lego Harry Potter Lego Creator: Harry Potter Lego Harry Potter: Years 1–4, Years 5–7 Book of Spells Book of Potions Action figures Trading Card Game Attractions The Wizarding World of Harry Potter at Universal Orlando Resort Dragon Challenge Flight of the Hippogriff Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey The Wizarding World of Harry Potter at Universal Studios Hollywood Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey Harry Potter Movie Magic Experience Warner Bros. Studio Tour London Related Fandom Influences and analogues Legal disputes Parodies Politics Religious debates Translation Wizard rock Book Category Commons Portal v t e Works by J. K. Rowling Harry Potter series Novels Philosopher's Stone (1997) Chamber of Secrets (1998) Prisoner of Azkaban (1999) Goblet of Fire (2000) Order of the Phoenix (2003) Half-Blood Prince (2005) Deathly Hallows (2007) Related works Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (2001) Quidditch Through the Ages (2001) Harry Potter prequel (2008) The Tales of Beedle the Bard (2008) Adult fiction The Casual Vacancy (2012) The Cuckoo's Calling (2013, as Robert Galbraith) v t e Books I Love Best Yearly: Younger Readers Award 1990-1999 Matilda by Roald Dahl (1990) The BFG by Roald Dahl (1991) Charlie and the Chocolate Factory by Roald Dahl (1992) Blabber Mouth by Morris Gleitzman (1993) Fantastic Mr Fox by Roald Dahl (1994) The Pagemaster by David Kirschner (1995) When the Wind Changed by Ruth Park (1996) Matilda by Roald Dahl (1997) Polar the Titanic Bear by Daisy Corning Stone Spedder (1998) Detective Donut and the Wild Goose Chase by Bruce Whatley and R. Smith (1999) 2000-2009 Just Stupid! by Andy Griffiths (2000) Harry Potter series by J. K. Rowling (2001) Just Crazy! by Andy Griffiths (2002) The Saddle Club series by Bonnie Bryant (2003) Just Disgusting! by Andy Griffiths (2004) The Bad Book by Andy Griffiths (2005) Just Crazy! by Andy Griffiths (2006) Early Readers Award (1990-present) Older Readers Award (1990-present) Read Australia Award (1994-1996) v t e Books I Love Best Yearly: Older Readers Award 1990–1999 The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole, Aged 13¾ by Sue Townsend (1990) The Outsiders by S. E. Hinton (1991) Where's Wally? by Martin Handford (1992) Flowers in the Attic by V. C. Andrews (1993) Looking for Alibrandi by Melina Marchetta (1995) Jurassic Park by Michael Crichton (1996) The Hobbit by J. R. R. Tolkien (1997) Tomorrow, When the War Began by John Marsden (1998) Bumface by Morris Gleitzman (1999) 2000–2009 Looking for Alibrandi by Melina Marchetta (2000) Harry Potter series by J. K. Rowling (2001) The Lord of the Rings by J. R. R. Tolkien (2002) Two of a Kind series by various authors (2003) Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix by J. K. Rowling (2004) Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban by J. K. Rowling (2005) Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince by J. K. Rowling (2006) Early Readers Award (1990–present) Younger Readers Award (1990–present) Read Australia Award (1994–1996) Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Harry_Potter&oldid=597573970" Categories: Harry Potter 1997 introductions BILBY Award winning works Curses in fiction Fantasy novel series Schools in fiction Hidden categories: Pages using citations with accessdate and no URL All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from April 2012 Articles with dead external links from October 2010 CS1 errors: dates Use British English from April 2012 Use dmy dates from October 2013 Wikipedia semi-protected pages Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages Articles containing potentially dated statements from July 2013 All articles containing potentially dated statements Articles using fixed number of columns in reflist Articles with inconsistent citation formats Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parameters Spoken articles Articles with hAudio microformats Commons category template with no category set Commons category with page title same as on Wikidata Good articles Navigation menu Personal tools Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read View source View history Actions Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikimedia Shop Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Data item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans Alemannisch አማርኛ العربية Armãneashce অসমীয়া Asturianu Azərbaycanca বাংলা Bân-lâm-gú Беларуская Bikol Central Български Boarisch Bosanski Brezhoneg Català Čeština Chavacano de Zamboanga Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Føroyskt Français Frysk Gaeilge Galego ગુજરાતી 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Hrvatski Ido Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua Íslenska Italiano עברית Basa Jawa ಕನ್ನಡ ქართული Қазақша Latina Latviešu Lëtzebuergesch Lietuvių Limburgs Magyar Македонски മലയാളം मराठी Bahasa Melayu Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄ Монгол Nederlands नेपाली 日本語 Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Occitan ଓଡ଼ିଆ ਪੰਜਾਬੀ پنجابی Перем Коми Piemontèis Plattdüütsch Polski Português Română Runa Simi Русский Саха тыла Sámegiella Sardu Scots Shqip Sicilianu Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina Ślůnski Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் Татарча/tatarça తెలుగు ไทย Türkçe Українська اردو Vèneto Tiếng Việt 文言 Winaray 吴语 ייִדיש 粵語 Žemaitėška 中文 Edit links This page was last modified on 28 February 2014 at 21:08. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Mobile view